## Silent — Shiv Overview
Shiv Silent chips away at the enemy with a flurry of knives that can do (surprisingly) a lot of damage. She aims to play as many shivs as possible, get as much strength as she can, and throw away at the monsters in the spire.

A Shiv is a 0 energy cost colorless attack card, dealing 4 damage to an opponent of your choosing and then Exhausting from your deck. One thing to keep in mind:
- **Generating Shivs does NOT count as drawing cards:** Cards that place shivs in your hand are *creating* them, not drawing them from a deck that only contains Shivs.
- **You cannot play Shivs you’ve already played:** Once a Shiv is used, it Exhausts, which places them in the Exhaust pile rather than your discard pile. This means that you must generate new Shivs to play them again.
- **Your Maximum Hand Size is 10:** When playing Shivs, it’s important to know that your hand size is 10. Cards that you create or draw that exceed this limit are placed in your discard pile. With cards that generate multiple Shivs like *Leading Strike*, *Blade Dance,* or an upgraded *Cloak and Dagger*, be sure not to overflow your hand and place Shivs in your discard pile, as you are both losing damage and drawing Shivs, which is not ideal.
## What to Aim For
In a world where you get all the cards you need, you’d have a 17-20 card sized deck, a load of **Leading Strikes**, as many of **Accuracy** as you can get, **Blade Dance**, **Fan of Knives**, **Knife Trap**, and **Afterimage**. Having all of these cards at once will almost never happen in any non-seeded or custom run. 

There are several relics that empower Shivs, either directly or indirectly, such as: **Kunai**, **Shuriken**, **Akabeko**, **Bag of Marbles**, **Girya**, **Helical Dart**, **Kusarigama**, **Nunchaku**, relics that give you strength, apply vulnerable, and give you benefits for playing a lot of Attacks.

However, even getting close to the full set is more than enough to win any run.

When playing Shiv Silent, here are some tips that might help you:
- **Upgrade Neutralize:** Neutralize is one of the best cards the Silent has for early-game survivability. She struggles with damage early in Act 1, and applying *Weak* on your enemies is a great way to stay alive.
- **Pick up Shivs!:** Shivs are the core of this build, and the Silent wants almost any card that can generate Shivs. Cards that are always good include: **Leading Strike**
- **Accuracy is your best friend:** Accuracy is a 1 cost power on the Silent that gives her shivs +4 damage, turning them from a meagre 4 damage to a much more respectable 8 damage. Upgraded, **Accuracy+** adds 6 damage to all Shivs. Powers can stack, so having multiple **Accuracy** in your deck helps you both use it consistently and stack your damage.
- **Getting Kunai or Shuriken:** Kunai is a relic that gives you 1 dexterity for every 3 attacks you play, which should solve all your defense. When paired like a card like **Afterimage**, you should be effectively immortal. Shuriken, on the other hand, gives you 1 strength for every 3 attacks you play. This an almost infinitely scaling power boost. One thing to note is that **Knife Trap**’s procs actually count as playing all the Shivs, so it can enable a lot of crazy things with either Kunai or Shuriken.

## Most Relevant Cards
These are some cards that I would pick more often than not if offered, in order of highest priority to lowest, along with some reasoning as to why. This list isn’t a hard rule and will depend on the state of your run.
- **Accuracy** - Accuracy is an *uncommon* power, and it’s invaluable. It can more than double your damage from the base Shiv. Upgraded, it adds 6 damage to every Shiv. If I see this with even 1 card that creates Shivs in my deck, I’m picking this.
- **Knife Trap** - This is a nuke. It plays every Shiv you’ve played in the current combat against an enemy, which can add up to stupid amounts of damage. *Accuracy*’s buff applies to every Shiv played, so it includes this as well. Upgraded, this upgrades all Shivs and then plays them. This is generally not needed, as you will be doing huge amounts of damage anyways.
- **Finisher** - This is a 1 cost card that deals 6 (8 if upgraded) damage for every attack already played this turn. It has the same damage numbers as *Knife Trap*, but is much more conditional.  However, if Knife Trap isn’t an option, this is a close second. 
- **Fan of Knives** - Arguably, this is on the same level as *Knife Trap*. Fan of Knives now makes it so that your Shivs now deal damage to all enemies, rather than just 1. This solves all your AOE damage problems. It also adds 5 shivs to your hand, which is 20 damage to all enemies – at base.
- **Leading Strike** - A staple Shiv generator. For the price of 1 energy, it deals 3 (6 if upgraded) damage to an enemy and adds 2 Shivs to your hand.
- **Cloak and Dagger** - The defensive option to generate Shivs. It gives you 6 block and adds 1 (2 if upgraded) Shiv to your hand.
- **Blade Dance** - It adds 3 (4 if upgraded) Shivs to your hand and Exhausts. This skill is a pure Shiv generator.
- **Afterimage** - This is a card that could be higher up in the list if you aren’t comfortable with your current defenses. Afterimage gives gives you 1 Block every time you play a card. With the amount of Shivs you can play in a turn, this is a great defensive layer. Upgraded, this card gains Innate, which means it always starts in your hand.
- **Tracking** - This is an amazing card if you can set it up right. Tracking is a power that doubles your attack damage against enemies with the Weak debuff. If you can set up *Neutralize* to apply weak, this is a double damage multiplier. Tracking favors smaller decks that can consistently and reliably apply weak.
- **Up My Sleeve** - For the price of 2, it adds 3 Shivs to your hand. It might seem bad, but after each successive play, it reduces its cost by 1. Generally, I’m not picking this card unless I’m struggling with Shiv generation.
- **Envenom** - This is a niche card for this build, applying 1 (2 if upgraded) poison to an enemy you deal unblocked attack damage to. With Shivs, this is usually a decent card to pick, as you deal many instances of damage. If you have the relic *Snecko Skull* that applies 1 additional poison each time you apply poison, this card is a much more reliable pick.
	- On a side note, **Outbreak** is a great card to pair with *Envenom.* It deals 11 (15 if upgraded) damage to all enemies every 3 times you apply poison.
## Act 1
Your main goal in Act 1 is to **trim strikes** and establish a theme for your deck. Plan your route in advance in order to take many elites as possible to increase your chance in getting uncommon and rare cards. Relics are also dropped by elites, so it’s a great way to increase your overall power. Cards like **Footwork** will give you 2 dexterity and **Piercing Wail** will lower the strength of all enemy attacks by 6 for a turn. You should always prioritize defending yourself rather than killing the enemy as quick as possible. Fortunately, the Silent has a lot of capability in defending herself.
### Overgrowth Elites
**Byrdonis** - Byrdonis is an easy Act 1 boss. However, it needs to be killed quickly. Byrdonis gains strength each turn, and it is more of a Block check than a damage check. Byrdonis alternates between a big hit and a 3x multihit combo. Try your best to defend, apply weak, and blast him with Shivs.

**Phrog Parasite** - Phrog Parasite will shuffle 3 *Infections* into your deck at the start of its turn. It will then swap between attacks and shuffling *Infections*. When it dies, it will summon 4 stunned Wrigglers. The first and third Wrigglers will always attack first, while the second and fourth will gain strength and shuffle an *Infection* in your deck. Tips against this boss are to have good AOE and a way to discard cards or have reliable block.

**Bygone Effigy** - Bygone Effigy can be an easy elite or a run killer, depending on when you encounter him. It starts its first 2 turns doing nothing, and passively every time you play a card each turn, it takes 10% increased damage from attacks until the end of the turn. Then, Effigy will attack energy turn for 25 damage afterwards. This build can easily destroy this boss, as you can play multiple Shivs each turn, each dealing more and more damage. Try to get your power, ideally *Accuracy*, set up quickly, so you can do even more damage to Effigy before it can deal a lot of damage to you.
#### Overgrowth Bosses
**Ceremonial Beast** - Ceremonial gains the Plow status, 150. When that health threshold is reached, it becomes stunned and loses all strength. A good tip for this is to apply vulnerable and throw Shivs at the beast until it reaches the threshold. It then gets stunned for 1 whole turn, and this is where it can take significant damage. It will wake up on the following turn. Once it does, it will always follow a cycle:
- Apply Ringing
- Deal 15 Damage
- Deal 17 damage and gain 3 Strength.
Ringing is a debuff that is dangerous for this deck. You can only play 1 card a turn when afflicted by ringing, and it gets dispelled at the end of the turn. Good tips for this are to either block (Survivor) or play *Knife Trap*, if you were luck enough to get it.

**Kin Priest** - Kin Priest is a multi-enemy boss, naturally being weaker to AOE. *Fan of Knives* is a great card to have for this boss. Kin Priest always cycles its moves in order:
- Deal 8 damage and apply 1 Frail
- Deal 8 damage and apply 1 Weak
- Deal 3 damage 3 times
- Gain 2 Strength
The Kin followers both also follow the same order, however, they start on different moves. Tips for this boss are to use *Fan of Knives*. However, if that isn’t an option, kill the enemies from first to last, as the monsters deal a lot of damage added up.

**Vantom** - A trivial boss for this build. Vantom starts with 9 stacks of Slippery. Slippery is a debuff that makes the next instance of damage deal 1 damage instead. With Shivs, getting through Slippery is a trivial matter, as you will be generating a lot of Shivs. Cards that attack multiple times like *Flechettes* and *Finisher* are also great for dealing with this boss. Because of the constantly cycling turns, you’ll always have time to prepare for the big damage turn, and capitalize off the buff turn.
#### Underdocks Elites
**Shulking Colony** - Shulking Colony is a consistency check. You can only deal 15 damage to Shulking Colony per turn. It will cycle between attacking you, shuffling dazed into your deck, and gaining strength + block in the same turn. It does a lot, and the key to fighting this elite is to have reliable block. Tips for this boss are to defend yourself, and then attack for as much as you can.

**Pantasmal Gardner** - Phantasmal Gardner is one of the hardest elites to fight in all the Underdocks. It will gain 6 block the first time they’re hit each round, making it difficult to try and damage more than one per round without good AOE. Targeting the lowest health one every round to kill is usually good enough without AOE. *Fan of Knives* or *Outbreak* are great AOE cards to fight this elite with.

**Terror Eel** - Terror Eel is like a discounted version of *Ceremonial Beast*. Once Terror Eel reaches 70 health, it will be stunned, after which it will spend a turn applying Vulnerable to you. Terror Eel cycles between a larger attack and a 3 hit attack that gains 7 Vigor. It never scales past this, so if you can block reliably, this elite is one of the easiest elites. Key tips are focusing on applying vulnerable to Terror Eel and throwing Shivs at it. The Shiv build is quite straightforward, and this is how you’ll be doing most of your damage.
### Underdocks Bosses
**Waterfall Giant** - Waterfall Giant heavily punishes decks that cannot deal a lot of damage, with a significant bomb of damage when it dies. This boss is not too hard to outscale with the Shiv build, as you are constantly dealing damage. If you have cards like *Accuracy*, *Finisher*, *Knife Trap*, or any other card that directly increases your damage, you can kill this boss before it stacks Steam eruption beyond your total health pool.

**Soul Fysh** - One of the easiest bosses for the Shiv Build. Most of the damage this boss does comes from the Status cards it applies on you: Beckon. They deal 6 damage if the card is in your Hand at the end of turn, and cost 1 to play. For this boss, the strategy is straightforward: apply vulnerability and kill it. This boss also gains the *Intangible* status, where attacks deal 1 damage to it for a turn. This is a turn where you can rest, block, and set up more powers if you have them in hand.

**Lagavulin Matriarch** - Lagavulin Matriarch starts combat with 12 Plating, and will sleep for 3 turns, or until Block is broken. While Lagavulin Matriarch is asleep, it’s a great time to pop your *Accuracy.* This boss is one of the steepest stat checks in the game. While it deals solid damage, you must kill it before it ruins your stats and kills you. Lagavulin Matriarch removes 2 strength, 2 dexterity from you and gains 2 strength. If you do not kill it within 2 cycles of its attack pattern, your Shivs will deal 0 damage, unless you have ways to increase your strength or have *Accuracy*. Vulnerability is a massive damage multiplier on this boss to kill it as quick as possible.
### Act 2
By this point you should have a concept of a build and some relics to your name. Act 2 should be where you refine your build as necessary. You should still aim to take Elite fights where you can, the more the better, but be aware of the difficulty spike. You should stop taking early-game cards by this point unless you are still struggling on damage
### Warning
Your first 2 encounters in Act 2 are drawn from a weaker set of enemies. Try to avoid taking hallway fights after this point if you can. Among the more difficult hallway fights is the potential to run into **Hunter Killer**, detailed below as an *elite*.
### Act 2 Elites
**Infested Prism** - This is an easy elite that doesn’t do much. It has a big hit, a multihit, and gaining strength. The first time Infested Prism takes unblocked damage, it gives you 1 energy, so it is quite easy to deal with this elite with that in mind. The tip, once again for this, is to deal as much damage as you can. It is better if you block its attacks, as this boss doesn’t scale much higher than its base abilities.

**Decimillipede** - Decimillipede is an AOE check. Upon killing one of the segments, it will lie dormant for 1 turn, upon which it will resurrect with 25 health. *Fan of Knives* is another solid AOE option to deal with this boss. If possible, try to spread your damage across all three segments so they die at roughly around the same turn.

**Entomancer** - For our build, this is one of the hardest fights in the entire game, including the final boss. Each time you attack this elite, it shuffles a Dazed into your deck, making it so that playing small damage amounts multiple times really punishes you. A tip for this boss is: *if you don’t need to strike him, don’t do it.* Playing multiple shivs really messes up your deck, so you must be reserved about playing multiple attacks and think into the future. Applying weak on this boss is a great survivability multiplier. Using potions like Bronze Skin, having the Thorns buff, or having the *Abrasive* power really kills this boss quick, as it does a lot of multihit attacks. Sometimes, it’s just better to play like a turtle even if you have 1 stack of the Thorns buff.

**Honorable Mention - Hunter Killer** - Hunter Killer is one of the hardest normal mobs in act 2 or our build. On Turn 2, it applies a debuff to you that reduces the power and defense of the next card played by 1, stacking until the end of turn. With Shivs, this is another time to play carefully, aware that you also need to block to stay alive.
### Act 2 Bosses
**Kaiser Crab** - Kaiser Crab is an easy boss; it is 2 separate enemies with different patterns. With Shivs, the idea is to burst one of them down quickly (the right hand if possible) and to have decent AOE. *Knife Trap* is great to burst one claw down, and *Fan of Knives* is good for AOE, once again. Powers like *Accuracy* will speed up this fight quite a bit, and the claw you attack matters with this boss’s special mechanic: if you are not facing a claw, it deals 50% more damage to you. With a bit of planning, this boss is easy to deal with.

**The Insatiable** - This is a very easy boss, once again, for our build. Granted that you’ve been thinning your deck. This boss shuffles 3 Frantic Escape into your deck. It has a status: Sand Pit, that it applies to itself in the beginning of the battle, which kills you instantly if it hits 0. Using Frantic Escape every once in a while will keep you alive from instant death. Playing the Frantic Escape early gives you more turns to deal with it. As always, try to apply vulnerable and throw Shivs at it until its dead. *Knife Trap* or *Finisher* are great to burst it down.

**Knowledge Demon** - This boss is very tricky to deal with, and depends a lot of how your game state is. At the start of combat, Knowledge Demon curses you. They are Disintegration: take 6 damage at the end of your turn, or Mind Rot which makes you draw 1 less card per turn. It curses another 2 times, after each attack cycle. If you can take 6 additional damage each turn, this option is an easy one to deal with. With our deck, we want to draw a lot, and play a lot of Shivs, so in most cases, *Disintegration* is the easiest to deal with. *Afterimage* is great when you play a lot of cards, which is what we do with Shivs.
### Act 3
Congratulations! You've made it to Act 3. If all has gone well enough, Act 3 should be a victory lap for your deck. By the time you reach Act 3, very few cards will make your deck better than it already is. Still, it's not too late to pick up a gamechanger to help put the cherry on top of your build. If you die here, it's quite likely that it is the result of some mistakes or poor luck earlier on in the run.
#### Act 3 Elites
**Knights** - This is a trio of knights, one of the hardest fights in Act 3 in my opinion. The *Flail Knight* attacks each turn, cycling between a larger hit and hitting twice. The *Ghost Knight* which spends its first turn applying a debuff to you that makes all your cards *Ethereal* while it’s alive, and then attacks you. The *Magi Knight* attacks and defends on it’s first turn, then will debuff you to downgrade all your cards while it’s alive. With the Shiv build, it’s acceptable to kill either the *Ghost Knight* or *Magi Knight* first, but it’s generally better to kill the *Ghost Knight* first to prevent your cards from being Ethereal. Another option to have is *Fan of Knives,* as it deals damage to all enemies.

**Mecha Knight** - This is an easy elite if you can play around it. It will spend the first turn attacking you for 25 damage, then give you 4 Burns on its next. It will gain block and strength, then charge up a very large attack onto you, continuing the order. This is a block check, in my opinion. Having cards like *Blur* will make this fight much easier. It starts with 3 Artifact, which makes applying debuffs very hard, unless you have *Expose*, which removes all artifact and Block from the enemy, applying 2 Vulnerable.

**Soul Nexus** - This is a hard hitting boss that is also a stat check. It’s a big elite that hits you really hard, and it doesn’t have any special mechanics. It will cycle between attacking for a large amount, attacking with a multi hit, or attacking while applying 2 Vulnerable and Weakness at the same time. It’s a straightforward elite, and the best way to get past it is to just hit it until it dies.
### Act 3 Bosses
**The Doormaker** - The Doormaker is one of the hardest bosses for beginners, but becomes easier once you can learn to play around it. The Doormaker has 3 different forms/phases it cycles through:
- Your cards gain exhaust: As it sounds, ALL the cards in your hand gain the Exhaust keyword. Playing a Shiv build, this isn’t too much of a consequence, but it can mess up your defense if you play too much of it. *Afterimage* is amazing in this fight, as it allows you to consistently block. ***Be very careful to not play all your Shiv generators in this phase.***
- Your cards make you lose 1 Energy: This is the second easiest phase. You want to play all your Shiv generators in this phase first before you play any other cards. Shivs cost 0, so playing them costs nothing, and the “Lose 1 Energy” tag means nothing on them. Additionally, *Bullet Time* exists, and makes all your cards cost 0 for the turn, with the downside of not being able to draw any more cards for the turn. Energy potions are invaluable here, as well as cards that let you gain a lot of energy.
- You cannot draw cards: This is the easiest phase in my opinion. With Shivs, you generate cards, not draw them, so this is basically a regular turn, unless you also have *Acceleration* or *Backflip* that you want to play. In that case… Good luck. For most decks, this is a free do damage turn, or a turn where you block as much as you can.

**Test Subject** - Test Subject is a boss with three phases. In phase 1, it gains 2 Strength when you play a skill. In phase 2, it shuffles 2 wounds into your deck for each instance of unblocked damage. Phase 3 will cycle through its moves, and gains intangible at the end of every other turn. The key here is to have *consistent damage*. In a multi phase fight, this is key. You can stack up your Shivs played, and then burst down Phase 2 and 3 with *Knife Trap* or *Finisher*. This is a relatively easy boss, and should not be hard with the Silent.

**Queen** - Queen will always start combat by applying 3 Chains of Binding, making your first 3 cards drawn each turn binded. Bind makes it so you can only play 1 of those cards. Then, she will apply 99 frail, weak, and vulnerable. Queen will then repeat giving 1 Strength to all allies, and gaining 20 block.
- Torch Head Amalgam attacks in an order, dealing a big hit each turn for 3 turns, then dealing a multihit, and then repeating. When Torch Head dies, the Queen changes her turn to gain 2 Strength. She then attacks in a cycle.
- Some tips for this boss are to have consistent draw to not get ruined by the binds, solid blocking wo defend their assault, and enough damage to end them before they scale. Cards like *Acceleration*, *Backflip*, and *Prepared* are great for card draw, and your main damaging options are Shivs. Having AOE is not needed for this fight, but it can be useful in some cases.


